Motor function is composed of feedforward processes that
plan movements and feedback processes that correct ongoing
movements.

Thus, movement errors may arise from incorrect feedforward
planning or they may arise through incorrect online
correction.

This implies that there is a fundamental credit assignment
problem between feedforward and feedback sensorimotor
processes.

That is, how does the motor system determine whether error
signals delivered by the external environment and sensed
through noisy biological sensors should be attributed to
erroneous feedforward planning versus erroneous feedback
control?

As a concrete example, consider performance in what is now a
classic behavioural sensorimotor laboratory task.
Participants are instructed to reach as accurate as possible
to a target about 10 cm away. However, feedback about hand
position deprived (e.g., it is like reaching for a light
switch in a pitch black room). At the halfway point of many
of these reaches, however, brief feedback about hand
position is flashed on the screen, and participants can use
this signal to adjust their ongoing reach to correct for
perceived errors in their path. The participants are then
given feedback at the endpoint of their reach.

What drives within-trial feedback integration and
between-trial adjustments to feedforward planning?

In the former, only one error signal is ever available, and
so it is obvious that midpoint feedback is the driver of
feedback integration.

In the latter, there are two potential error signals that
may drive adaptation. The perceived error at midpoint is
exactly the mismatch between planned and actual movement,
and so it seems clear that this error signal would be
capable of driving FF adaptation.

The endpoint error, however, contains information about the
efficacy of the feedback command as well as the accuracy of
the feedforward plan, and so it may also be an effective
driver of adaptation.

Moreover, the error at midpoint is still a sensory
prediction error, even though it is not the pure output of
the feedforward plan, and current evidence suggests that FF
plans are adapted in response to sensory prediction errors
regardless of whether or not those errors are contingent on
behaviour.


Thus, we are left with a fundamental question: 

- What drives FF adaptation --- midpoint, endpoint, or both?

- Does the feedback command influence FF adaptation? 

- E.g., does feedback command prevent FF adaptation of the
  resulting endpoint error?

- On the other hand, are they independent? Is FF adaptation
  the sum of the adaptation that would occur from each -
  like a 2-stage scenario?
  
- E.g., does FF adaptation just latch onto whichever sensory
  error carries the highest precision?

- If endpoint is used for FF adaptation, is the FB command
  somehow subtracted out?
  
- How does the precision of the sensory feedback at any
  stage influence all the above?


Bayesian frameworks provide an elegant computational
solution to this issue.

The likelihood of an error signal being assigned to a given
system is proportional to the precision of prior trust in
that system, and inversely proportional to the uncertainty
of the sensory information provided to that system.

To date, there have been numerous demonstrations that -- in
isolation of one another -- feedforward planning and
feedback correction systems obey this Bayesian principle.

However, it remains unknown how these systems interact...
Might such Bayesian principles also govern credit assignment
between systems?

....

Both processes are constantly adapted and tuned to the
context and task at hand, and both must achieve appropriate
tuning in the presence of random noise and systematic
perturbations arriving in a variety of magnitudes, and
arising due to processes both internal and external to the
agent.

There is a rich history of studies asking how the various
components of the motor system deal with these sources of
uncertainty.

However, even after 20+ years of investigation, several core
questions remain to be addressed.

In particular, while the current literature suggests that
both feedback control and feedforward adaptation are
sensitive to sensory uncertainty in a fashion that is
consistent with Bayesian principles, these demonstrations
(1) have been made at different timescales, and (2) have
been made using very different behavioural paradigms that
preclude an understanding of whether the presence of one
effect can interact (interfere or boost) the effect of the
other.

Feedback control has been shown to be Bayesian on a
timescale of trials. People will alter an ongoing reach in
response to midpoint feedback by an amount that is ordered
according to the uncertainty of sensory feedback. Since
feedback in this paradigm is given at midpoint and at
endpoint, both feedback control and feedforward adaptation
are likely active components of the observed behaviour, but
whether or not the feedforward component appears Bayesian
has not been reported.

Feedforward adaptation, on the other hand, has been shown to
be Bayesian on a timescale of blocks of many trials. People
adapt feedforward motor plans at a rate that is ordered
according to the uncertainty of sensory feedback.
Furthermore, sensory feedback in these paradigms have
included only endpoint feedback, so feedback control is not
a component of the observed behaviour.

Here, we show that both feedback control and feedforward
adaptation appear sensitive to sensory uncertainty in a
roughly Bayesian fashion at both trial-by-trial and
block-by-block timescales, and we show that the Bayesian
effect on feedback control is largely unaffected by the
Bayesian effect on feedforward adaptation, and vice versa. 

